
# Motivation and Purpose

**Our role**: Data Science team at VanRealtor

**Target audience**: Real estate customers looking to buy properties in
Vancouver neighbourhoods and Real estate agents at Realtor looking for
listings in safer neighbourhoods to attract more clients.

Being the largest city in British Columbia, Vancouver is an attractive
city to call home for many. Reasons include its vast ethnic diversity,
natural landscape, coastal, foresty, job market and so on. Despite the
vibrant qualtiies of this city, an important factor when deciding to
live in a specific city depends on the safety of its neighbourhoods,
along with other factors such as access to essential services, cost of
living etc. Research evidence have shown that crime types have had
significant changes during COVID at neighbourhood levels in Vancouver
(Anderson and Hodgkinson 2022). For example, assault cases, aroson and
robbery have increased in Vancouver’s Downtown core, stratchcona and
Mount Pleasant areas. At VanRealtor, we wanted to offer our clients the
decision to choose their next neighbourhood to move, rent or visit while
being aware of the crimes statistics of the city. This dashboard allows
people to search for crime related information by neighbourhoods in
Vancouver using data from 2021. Users can filter data based on
geological location, monthly crime rates, crime types and ..(will update
as we finalize)

# Data Description

# Research Questions and Usage Scenarios

# Description of app and dashboard sketch

# References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-vancrime" class="csl-entry">

Anderson, M., and T. Hodgkinson. 2022. “Andresen MA, Hodgkinson t. In a
World Called Catastrophe: The Impact of COVID-19 on Neighbourhood Level
Crime in Vancouver, Canada \[Published Online Ahead of Print, 2022 Jan
9\]. J Exp Criminol. 2022;1-25. Doi:10.1007/S11292-021-09495-6.”
*Journal of Experimental Criminology*, 1–25.

</div>

</div>
